# *King Lear* and Kurosawa's *Ran* on the Banality of Virtue

Many comparisons have been drawn between Kurosawa Akira’s samurai masterpiece *Ran* (乱, translated literally: “chaos”)
and Shakespeare’s *King Lear*. The film is almost a beat-by-beat adaptation of the play, transplanted in setting from
medieval Britain to the Sengoku Jidai. This is more than simply an aesthetic choice, as it reweights the moral discourse
on matters such as duty and familiality. Nihilistic interpretations of *King Lear* came into vogue in the 20th century,
and commentators have pointed to King Lear as the inspiration behind absurdist playwrights like Samuel Beckett. Indeed,
Lear is a man with unmet psychological needs, who subsequently spirals into madness when his life’s course escapes his
control. Unlike other tragic heroes who struggle valiantly against their fates, Lear stumbles to his doom in a half
daze, unable to cope with his life’s changing circumstances. Rescue seemingly comes and he regains his senses
momentarily, but is soon thrown into imprisonment, where Cordelia, perhaps the most moral character in the play, is
killed. Though he also outlives his treacherous daughters Goneril and Regan, Lear dies nonetheless, having lost his will
to live. Yet the narrative of *Ran* is not quite as unmoored from reason and agency. Ichimonji Hidetora, unlike Lear, is
more than a vain fool: the three castles which he divides among his sons were obtained through his conquests, and he has
proven a consummate warlord of the Sengoku Jidai. He has, at least in his past, been able to rule effectively, to see
through deceptions (as all warfare is deception), and is a formidable, if not necessarily noble character; though later
repeatedly betrayed, he does inspire loyalty from some of his followers. Yet in a senile lapse of judgment, his life’s
work is put to ruin. Though Kurosawa’s ending is similarly difficult to grapple with as Shakespeare’s (shortly after
reuniting with his father, Saburo is abruptly killed by an assassin sent by his brother), *Ran* is not so much absurdist
theater as a cautionary tale about seeking privilege without responsibility, the danger of mistaking substanceless
claims of virtue for true morality, and the cost of unrestrained sentimentality in a chaotic world.

Both stories begin with the same scene. Both lords wish to give up the mantle of responsibility: each wishes to split
their feudal possessions between their children, in the hopes that each will come to the others’ aid in times of need.
Yet while Lear solicits his daughters for their proclamations of love for him (Act 1, Scene 1, Lines 56-58), and allows
his infantile need for validation to decide the fate of the realm, Hidetora merely lectures his sons on the importance
of cooperation, dispensing the ancient proverb of a bundle of arrows being stronger than a single shaft. His is also an
understandable weariness, having spent his entire adult life fighting to secure and expand his territory. There is a
difference between his boisterous samurai retinue, with whom he has repeatedly faced life and death in battle, and that
of Lear’s entourage of knights, who ultimately amount to an uncouth mob of his drinking companions. In the former, an
unrestrained vigor constitutes an asset, whereas in the latter, it only proves a nuisance. Whereas Hidetora dispenses
with what he has earned or won, Lear’s claim to rulership derives solely from inheritance. Moreover, Hidetora’s lapse of
judgment is a bout of idealism: his hope is that his sons can uphold the Confucian ideal of brotherhood. Lear on the
other hand, has become accustomed to the obsequious behavior of those who serve him, expecting that they will continue
to treat him in that way, even after he has relinquished his authority. There is a fundamental difference in the
character of the two men, and in their histories, that casts their actions into different lights.

There is also a difference between how Cordelia answers her father’s entreaty, and in how Saburo responds to his
father’s parable. Cordelia is passively unwilling to use flattery for material gain, and responds that she loves her
father “no more, no less” than familial ties might oblige her (Act 1, Scene 1, Line 102), whereas Saburo snaps the
bundle of arrows upon his knee, and remarks that Hidetora is making a foolish decision. While Saburo is seemingly rude
and impulsive, in reality, he is fulfilling his filial duty by counseling his father against an unwise course of action,
for he understands that words alone are insufficient to instill values, that it is ruthlessness rather than benevolence
which his brothers have learned from his father, and that a succession crisis will follow as a result of Hidetora’s
misjudgment. There is the classical dramatic conflict here between appearance and reality, and while neither Lear nor
Hidetora are able to distinguish flattery from sincerity, Saburo demonstrates that he possesses the necessary insight to
lead. While it seems clear that Cordelia is also the worthiest among her siblings to inherit, Kurosawa puts forth a
concept of virtue that is different in that it is fundamentally tied to capability and agency.

Ultimately, Hidetora’s past actions plant the seeds of his demise. Kaede, his eldest son Taro’s wife, schemes to avenge
her family, whom Hidetora defeated and destroyed decades ago. His sons do not heed his lectures on filiality and
loyalty, but rather follow the example of violence and brutality which he has set for them. They themselves remark on
the hypocrisy of his words, observing that Hidetora had fought his own brothers for succession, emerging victorious from
that crisis as his first achievement. Hidetora’s error which leads to his downfall is also somewhat different from that
of Lear’s. Both seek to enjoy privilege without responsibility, but Hidetora, while seemingly well-intentioned in his
hope that his sons will uphold their brotherly relationships, also violates Confucian notions of appropriateness in the
process of abdication by allowing his sons to inherit before his death. Though his lapse of judgment in dividing his
possessions sets into motion his downfall, the enmity and strife that set the scene were of his own creation, long
before this inciting event. Everything which he suffers, he had once inflicted upon those he had defeated; the narrative
of his downfall is of a kind of karmic justice.

Lear, on the other hand, suffers disproportionately for his actions. Unlike Hidetora, who claimed his rule through
force, Lear’s rule is but an accident of his birth. He lacks both ability and agency, and is compelled by both the
schemes of others which he cannot foresee and his own fatuous desire for an unearned adoration from his daughters, and
from his subjects in general. Meaning and narrative cohesion are derived from continuity and agency, but while Kurosawa
chose consciously to tie Hidetora’s past into the plot of his adaptation, Shakespeare gives no indication that Lear ever
did more than merely exist. He is born to the throne, becomes attached to the privileges of rulership, yet abdicates the
crown, expecting others to hold him in the same regard even after he has given up his royal authority. Lear cannot
distinguish between the respect that others afford his position, and the views which others hold of him as a person.
Almost all his former subjects rightfully regard him as a non-entity, once he has given up his rule; he is allowed to
wander in his madness. Hidetora is almost as neglected, though his sons Taro and Jiro seek to use him as a token of
legitimacy to back their claims. After the slaughter of his retainers, he too succumbs to lunacy: in a moment of
confusion, he slips through the encirclement into the wilderness, unaccompanied except by Kyoami, his court jester.

Hirayama Tango and Kent are the only two, aside from Kyoami and Lear’s unnamed fool, who continue to faithfully serve
their lords. Yet this is a blind devotion that is not rewarded in kind. When Saburo and Cordelia are banished, Tango and
Kent remonstrate on their behalves, yet are exiled also for their loyal advice. Though they disguise themselves and
continue on in their lords’ service, with Tango proving a capable warrior as he singlehandedly cuts down three of Jiro’s
men, they do not meaningfully affect the course of the narrative through their efforts. Lear and Hidetora tolerate
remarks or even criticisms made by their fools that they would not accept from others. While the words of the fools
contain some insight hidden in jest, neither is able to persuade or suggest a course of action that can avert disaster.
Not only do Lear and Hidetora lack personal agency once events are set into motion, but they are unable even to be
assisted by those who remain loyal to them.

Despite this, the possibility of redemption is hinted at, when Cordelia arrives with the army of France, and when Saburo
arrives with his men, supported by the forces of Fujimaki Nobuhiro, a rival daimyo who wishes to recruit Saburo to his
cause by marrying him to his daughter. Lear and Cordelia are briefly reunited, and the two are reconciled; Lear regains
his senses and expresses his joy to be reunited with Cordelia, whom he had foolishly condemned. Saburo rides off in
search of his father, finding him stranded amid a volcanic plain. Hidetora too recovers his sanity, and is in good
spirits, remarking that he is satisfied to be able to speak to his son once more. Yet no sooner do these words leave his
lips than an assassin’s bullet strikes Saburo from his horse, killing him instantly. Saburo’s men, despite their
inferior numbers, valiantly win the day against Jiro’s forces, but with his death, their purpose is lost. Fujimaki takes
advantage of the situation to seize Jiro’s stronghold, and is the only one who benefits from the ensuing chaos.
Kurosawa’s ending illustrates the fragility of the good: that control over one’s life is tenuous at best, that one
mistake or misfortune can undermine the work of a lifetime, and that a chaotic world may be unforgiving and deeply
unfair, with loyalty, courage, and filiality that go unrewarded, and no second chances. In King Lear, Regan and Goneril
combine their forces against the French, repelling the invaders. Cordelia is taken captive, and is executed by her
sisters. Regan and Goneril turn against each other, and also die as a result of their schemes. Shakespeare’s ending on
the other hand reinforces the absurdity of his narrative, in which no one ultimately benefits, all fall to ruin, and the
would-be tragic hero, though marked by his hamartia of an infantile psyche, is but a passenger to his doomed fate.

*King Lear* and *Ran* are nearly identical in plot, with many scenes that play out similarly beat-by-beat. Yet subtle
differences cause the two stories to read very differently in theme and values espoused. Kurosawa’s plot is imbued with
meaning and coherence through its continuity with the characters’ pasts, an imperfect but still present correspondence
between actions and consequences, but also through a cultural backdrop that pronounces unambiguous judgments upon the
characters’ actions. King Lear is much more ambiguous in its morality than Ran, and literary critics in the 20th century
often interpreted this ambiguity as nihilism or amorality, but this is not entirely merited. One lesson that may be
gleaned from Shakespeare’s play is the notion that virtue is banal, and easily overlooked. For any concept of good to
provide prescriptive value, it must be attainable, and to demand the impossible is to invite deceptive malice. Cordelia
plays a mostly passive role: she refuses to tell falsehoods when Lear demands that she express her love in exchange for
her share of the kingdom, and later relies on France to rescue her father, whom she forgives upon their reunion. Yet
this is a higher standard of integrity than most can uphold, and perhaps must be sufficient, even if not heroic, if one
is to avoid eschewing all value.
